NodeJS is used to run JS outside the browser.
Creator: Ryan Dahl

Browsers have JS engines to run JS since machines cannot understand JS directly.
Ex: Google Chrome has V8 engine which is written in C++

                                        JavaScript
                                            |
                                           C++
                                            |
                                    Assembly Language
                                            |
                                       Machine Code


Node.js is an open source JS runtime environment.
Its not a Programming Language
Its not a framewrork.

Node.js is build on Chrome's V8 JS engine


                            Framworks vs Library vs Runtime Envs
                            ------------------------------------


                                            LIBRARY
- A collection of pre-written code (functions, classes, etc.) that you can call when you need it.
- Your control the flow, decide when and how to call the code
- YOU CALL THE CODE.

Ex: Lodash, jQuery

Analogy:
Like ordering ingredients from a store—you still cook the meal.

                                          FRAMEWORK

- A complete structure or skeleton that dictates how your code should be organized. 
  You fill in the pieces.

The framework Controls the flow. It calls your code at specific points. 

Ex: Angular, Next.js, Express.js

Analogy:
Like working with a recipe kit—you follow their steps and only customize certain parts.


                                    RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT

- The engine that runs your code. 
- It provides essential features like memory management, I/O, and system-level APIs.

You don’t write it—you run your code inside it.

Ex: 
Node.js – runtime for running JavaScript outside the browser
JVM – Java Virtual Machine for running Java bytecode
Python interpreter

Analogy:
Like the kitchen where you cook—without it, nothing runs.


                                            How to run node in machine CMD
                                            ------------------------------

- open cmd
- "node" + enter   (to exit, just type ctrl + C  OR process.exit())
- "process" + enter -> provides information about and control over the current Node.js process. 
   It's an essential tool for interacting with the runtime environment

                                            How to run JS file using node
                                            ------------------------------

- open vs code >> create a simple file
- preferably, run the js file from VS code terminal, since we are then already in that directory
- command -> node fileNameWithPath









